For this example, we'll use a basic Cisco firewall rule.
While there are many other methods,
they will all have a similarity in the syntax.
A Cisco firewall rule will have the interface being used,
whether the traffic is being allowed or denied,
what protocols are used,
what objects are involved,
and finally, the service or port.
This is not a comprehensive list,
we're looking at a basic rule.
If we are Acme incorporated and we have
a vendor that needs to connect with our database server,
here is what a sample rule might look like.
Keep in mind, this is a basic rule.
There are other methods of access control.
The rule begins with access list,
which is simply a rule that controls traffic.
Next up is the name of the interface being used.
If you recall from just a few moments ago,
a firewall will have at minimum two interfaces, outside and inside.
This example is showing the traffic will be traversing
our internal interface to ultimately reach our database server.
Here, we are using an extended permit as opposed to a standard permit.
An extended permit gives additional flexibility in matching the traffic more granularly.
For this rule, we're identifying that TCP is the protocol being used.
UDP is another common option.
Source is listed before destination.
In this rule, we're identifying
the IP address that will be allowed to access our database server.
Often organizations will name the IP address for
additional information as well as the ability to reuse it later.
Here, we'll just use the IP.
The destination is the IP address of our database server.
Eq means equal to,
and in this request we're processing the port as 9081.
Management often get impatient with having to wait on security to allow specific traffic.
It isn't uncommon to be asked,
why do we need this and other rules?
Why can't we make our servers public-facing?
By securing our database server and other resources behind the firewall,
we ensure that only authorized traffic is allowed.
This protects us from malicious traffic as well as our intellectual property.
As you learned in a previous lesson,
the principle of least privilege should always be practiced.
The minimum level of access is always preferred.
It does not apply only to login accounts.
A quick note before we move on,
most firewalls process their rules from top to bottom.
This is important to note because a firewall will not
process any further rules once a condition is met.
Your rules should be more specific at the top and more general near the bottom.